---
title: Summary of week 1 late start
date: "2022-01-28"
---

I wanted to reach out and explain the reasons for the late start for divisions A
and B last night.

In general week 1 quite often suffers from delays, this week 1 league start was
exceptionally late start for A and B compared to past leagues. Because of
staggered start with C starting the datapoints are not targeted at C teams just
the fact that C starts first and that has impact on A and B start.

As organizers use Scoreholio to help us guess how long a division takes to
finish and I wanted to share this with you so you can know what to expect each
week (hopefully)

C Division 12 teams 6 courts: 1:00h

B Division 21 teams 4 courts: 2:06h

A Division 12 teams 3 courts: 2:00h

The above numbers assume 15 minute game time, and that players are ready at the
court when the previous game is done.

The goal of the league is still to offer players of all skills to enjoy the game
of cornhole and chill with friends on a Thursday night. We love you all and we
of course want you to hang out and enjoy the night with your friends, but to
give you an example if B would get an average time of 20 minutes between games
instead of 15, it adds almost hour to the tournament. So do check your phones,
look at coming up and get ready to play when scores are about 15 on the ongoing
games it saves a lot of time.

Having said that we wanted to understand why we had these delays, in particular
because we wanted to understand if the change with ScoreMagic was the culprit
and make changes accordingly. Looking at the game logs for each division and C
in particular that took 1:40 to complete over the expected 1 hour finish time

1. **Late start (+15-20 min):** We did not manage to start the C league until
   around 6:20 due to waiting for teams and also week 1 is always more stuff to
   prepare with payment, etc.

2. **Uneven and low number of teams in C (15 min):** Due to an uneven number of
   teams in C, the last two games could not start without waiting for the 3rd
   from last game to finish (as that's just how round robin works).

3. **Low numbers of teams 2 (7 min):** Because there were only 9 teams showing
   up for C, which is the absolute worst number to have for a 4 round RR, we
   could not use all courts, only 4 courts could be used because we did not
   have enough teams to fill 5. It may seem odd but removing two courts and
   losing the capabilities to run 2 additional games at the same time have an
   impact on total time.

4. **Competitive games on one court (5 min) :** Not only did we have a above
   point delay the game play, we also had over average many round games, since
   the number of match ups in a 4 round robin formats require 8 teams and we
   had 9, those long games help up 2 teams of the 8 to be matched up with teams
   waiting that also already played each other escalating the time in overall.

5. **Game time longer than expected (2 min):** In general, in all divisions
   game time on average was a little bit longer than expected, 2-4 minutes, we
   know that was some of was a learning curve for a few teams with scoremagic.
   But this point is also affected by point 2 and 3 because we only know the
   time between you submit the final score on each court. But in C we did have
   an average amount of games over 20 rounds as well, this also adds time and
   trickles down the following games.

6. **Slow tech** **(1 min)**: as you probably noticed yourself, it was tough to
   load stats even on your phone and some tablets were slow. Hard to know why
   that was. Most likely a combination of our MIFI being a bit slow and
   Scoreholio.

Looking at the above as you can see there are a lot of moving parts, and as
organizers we can only change a few. Our goal is to provide a fun cornhole night
for everyone and in order better the chances for that we will make a few changes
to minimize the two biggest time thieves.

The reasons for delays that we as organizers can change are **35 mins (point
1,2)**. we can don’t want to add round limits to a good cornhole game so
competitive games are not changeable.

## What we as organizers will do

**Start on time -15 min:** Welcome talk will be at 5:55 for a maximum of 5
minutes. Bags will fly at 6

If you and your team have not checked in at 6PM, you will be moved to finished
not in play. If you show up before round 2 is concluded, we will allow you to
play. If round 3 has started, we cannot let you play.

**If you are not checked in by 6:00 PM for C you will be moved to not in play.**

**If you are not checked in by 7:30 PM for A and B you will be moved to not in
play.**

**Uneven and low number of teams –15-22 min:** Up until now when we had the
unlucky number where the last team have to wait and potentially also another
team have to play one extra game to give the odd team 4 games. We will not do
that anymore (for any division). If 9 teams show up for a 4 round robin one team
will end up playing only 3 rounds.

**Change start time for A and B 7:30:**

Looking back at previous weeks we kind of never started at the right time here.
So to avoid to frustrate the few that get annoyed by us not keeping time and to
respect the time of others so you know bags will now fly 7:30 same rules apply
for A and B as for C.

## What we as organizers could do if above does not help and we keep being this delayed

**Make scoremagic optional:** While we use this to track who qualified for
playoffs if a majority of you as players feel that it’s a lot of pain to use
this or we see that game times keep getting longer we will make it optional or
remove it. However we expect this to have medium impact.

**Introduce game timers again:** Many of you don’t know but way back we had game
timers set to 15 minutes, the team with highest score after 15 minutes win.

**Split days:** We could split days but we really don’t want to do that. As
organizers it would impact our lives a lot because we need to dedicate two
nights per of running cornhole for you. All of us do this on a voluntary basis
because we enjoy it so it would be hard. Also, we believe that would seriously
have an impact on the great group feeling and club spirit we have.

## What you do as team/player can do to keep things rolling (everybody)

**If you are on time you are late,** if possible come 15-20 minutes early we
know this can be particularly challenging for C division that travels from work.

**If you are late but are coming:** If you are on your way, with the new
check-in ability on Scoreholio do check in if you know you are 10 -15 late. If
you know that there are not enough players on your team there already **do**
send a message to one of us and we will make sure you are not first up and we
will put you back in play when you arrive.

**If you know you are not coming:** Please let us know, it will keep the stress
level for us down knowing that you won’t show up.

**Be ready when you are almost up:** Keep an eye on the game queue in
Scoreholio, if your team is in position 1-4 you are likely to be up on the next
court with the highest score. Get your bags, find your teammate and why not even
go and watch and cheer on the court where you suspect you will be up.

## Reminder for week 2

**Make sure you have notifications turned on for Scoreholio**, you will get a
check in notification on your phone click it and check in if you are playing
that night. Expect these notifications to start about 30 min before bags fly. If
you know how to turn that on, ask someone on the board and we will help you
configure it.

Thank you,

[Your Name]
